Good afternoon.
My name is John Comiskey.
I'm an engineer in the AppleScript group,
and I'm here to talk to you today about
making your application scriptable.
Scriptability lets your end users
solve their problems on their own.
You spend a lot of time
polishing your application,
but you can't always
anticipate every need,
and you also can't always justify the
time it takes to fill the needs of
people that have very unique needs.
The benefits of Scriptability
to you are very high.
You get automation,
which is going to help you do your
testing and ship your product better,
and it's going to help your end
users solve their problems better.
You get integration.
You work better with other
applications on the Macintosh and
with the Macintosh system itself,
and you get loyalty from your customers,
which is great.
You want your customers to come
back release after release.
You want them to upgrade.
You want them to keep using your product,
and Scriptability can help you do that.
[Transcript missing]
We're going to cover
several different topics.
First, why you want to be scriptable.
We already talked a
little bit about that,
but we'll go into more detail.
Then the first step,
and we really do mean the first
step in good scriptability,
is designing a dictionary.
And we're not just going
to talk about that today,
we're going to show you.
Then you have got to write some code.
You should be able to leverage a
lot of code that you've already got,
but you will have to write
some that's just for scripting.
Then you have got to write some
code that you've already got,
but you will have to write some
code that's just for scripting.
Your end users can solve their
problems and that you haven't regressed
anything that they're depending
upon in their daily workflows.
And scriptability will help
you do a better job of testing.
So why be scriptable?
What's in it for me?
As a developer, how do you benefit?
Well, first we need to define our terms.
What does scriptable mean?
It means giving your end users
a way of controlling your
application with something other
than the keyboard and the mouse.
You want to give them a programmatic
way of controlling your application
so that they can automate tasks
that they do repetitively.
Strictly speaking,
you need to be OSA compliant.
OSA compliant, OSA stands for
Open Scripting Architecture,
and it's a set of protocols and
agreements that we all stick to so that
our applications work better together
and work better with the system.
And to find out the particulars
and the details of that,
you want to read the scripting
interface guidelines,
which is Techno 2106.
Just as we have human interface
guidelines to make sure that programs
are uniform across applications,
uniform across vendors,
and every experienced Macintosh
user can approach a new application
and know instinctively what
it is they're supposed to do,
how to explore the menus,
how to explore the toolbar,
how to move things around on the screen
and get it to do what they want to do.
We also have a set of scripting interface
guidelines so that we have consistency
across applications and across vendors,
and people who are experienced scripters
get that same end user experience of
continuity across the entire system.
And the key component of that is that
we want you to do model scripting,
not view scripting.
We want you to expose the objects
that your application manipulates
rather than just all the buttons
and sliders on the screen.
View scripting is free and
it's worth every penny.
You can do things with view scripting,
but anytime the view changes,
anytime you move a button,
anytime you put something
inside of a box,
all of a sudden your view scripts break
and they all have to be rewritten.
Model scripting doesn't act like that.
Model scripting works
release after release.
The biggest benefit and the most
immediate benefit to you as a
developer is in automated testing.
You've got a lot of code that backs
up your beautiful user interface.
You've got a powerful back end.
Maybe it's hooked up to a database.
Maybe it's hooked up to the network.
And you need ways to test that.
And you've probably got very dedicated
people that sit down in front of a
computer and try one thing after another
to see if they can make something break.
But try as they might.
They really can't touch
everything every time.
If you've got a way of
automating your testing,
they can do that.
And what you want to do is you
want to do regression testing.
You want to keep your results from
the time before and compare them.
Make sure that if you make a change,
you get the intended change,
but you don't get any unintended
changes along with it.
Stress testing is hard to do by hand,
but with automated testing,
you can set up a script and let
it run overnight and do thousands
or tens of thousands of iterations
while you're at home sleeping.
And you can also have validated releases.
When you get ready to
release your software,
you can know for a fact,
not only does the new stuff
that we put in there work.
Not only do our whiz-bang features
really get that wow and that pop,
but all the things that people have
come to depend upon also still work.
It's a sad surprise to
open a new application,
see all the cool new things it can do,
but the one thing that you
do every day is broken.
Another thing that you and your end users
get from scriptability is integration.
It makes your application work
better with the rest of the system.
And you can leverage
existing technologies inside
of the operating system.
AppleScript is 15 years old now.
AppleScript's been bugging
me about getting a learner's
permit and borrowing my car,
but that's not going to happen.
More recently,
we've come up with Automator.
Automator is big chunk automation
for end users to make automation
even more approachable.
We've come up with some
common things that people do.
Those are called actions.
They can be put together in a big block
fashion into a workflow and solve common
problems that everyday people have.
And it's much more
approachable than AppleScript.
You don't have to think of
yourself as a programmer to do it.
And we've now got,
that says scripting bridge,
but it's pronounced Apple event bridge.
And it is a programmatic way
for one application to talk
to another using Apple events,
using the scriptability of
the external application.
And what happens is the object
model of an external application
becomes available to you,
the developer, as full-fledged objects
inside your application.
So you can simply tell other
applications to do things for you,
and then you don't have to
write all that code yourself.
That's your bridge to
leveraging other applications.
Anthracite is a web mining tool.
And Joe Pizzillo wrote it.
He's a great friend of scriptability.
If you see a guy in a plaid hat,
that's Joe Pizzillo.
Say hi.
And he did a great job of
making Anthracite scriptable.
And Anthracite can pull down huge
amounts of data off of the web.
And he didn't want to write all
the code to process all of that.
But he didn't have to,
because Microsoft Excel is
extensively scriptable.
He can export data directly into
Microsoft Excel spreadsheets,
and you can use Excel to do a lot
of your data grinding for you.
But thousands and thousands of numbers
are sometimes hard to understand.
The Omni group is another
great friend of scriptability.
They have a tremendous suite
of scriptable applications.
and OmniGraffle is one that can take
huge amounts of numeric data and
express it in a graphical form and
make it much more understandable.
Adobe is also another company that
has embraced scriptability and put
it into all of their applications.
And Adobe Illustrator can
fulfill the same role,
turning thousands and
thousands of numbers into one
nice comprehensible picture.
And then when you're all done,
you want to email this off
to your boss so he knows that
you've been working really,
really hard in getting
all of this stuff done.
And once you've put this
whole workflow together,
it can run unattended while
you're not even there,
fire off this email at the end and
everybody thinks you're working really
hard and you're actually at the ballgame.
Automation is a benefit that
accrues to your end users.
They have problems that
you didn't anticipate.
They want to do things that you
didn't think of and you didn't
make a feature in your application.
But if you give them a rich
object model to work with,
they can solve these problems on their
own and they get immediate results.
They don't have to wait
for your release cycle.
They don't have to wait six months
or a year for you to come out with
a new version or bug you to be on
a beta list even though you know
they're actually going to deploy
it throughout their entire company.
You don't want to do that.
And when people do write these scripts
and solve their problems on their own,
you want to get that feedback.
You want to have a vibrant
online community feeding
information back to you saying,
hey, I wrote this script.
And you want that for
a couple of reasons.
You want to capture that script.
You want to make it part of your testing.
You want to make sure you don't break
that script ever because there's
somebody out there really using it.
And also, you want to kind of pull these
little features that people
are adding to your application.
If you find that 50 different people have
written a script to do the same thing,
you want to make sure you
don't break that script ever.
If you find that 50 different people have
written a script to do the same thing,
you might want to consider making
that a feature of your app.
Customers also get
their work done faster.
They do the same things
over and over again.
And after you've worked with an
application for a while and you've done
the same thing over and over again,
you get tired.
You begin to hate the application.
The last thing you want is for people
to learn to hate your application.
You want them to love your application.
If you give them an automated way
of doing their repetitive tasks,
they can write scripts.
They can set that all up.
It runs while they're at lunch.
It runs overnight.
And then the next time
they come to your app,
it's to solve a new problem.
And they're really excited about it.
And then they learn to love your app.
And you want them to love
your app because then they'll
buy all your upgrades.
And automation is going to give
them consistent results as well.
They're going to get the
same result every time.
They're never going to wonder, gee,
did I click this first and then that?
They don't have to worry about
what was clicked because it was
all done programmatically for them.
And this leads to loyalty.
Once somebody's made you part
of their automated workflow,
they are never going to get
rid of your application.
Even if your competitor comes
out with a great new feature
that everybody's got to have,
if you're scriptable and they're not,
your customers may go buy
that other application,
but they're never going
to get rid of yours.
You're going to be part of their workflow
forever unless you break their scripts,
which is why you need to do
automated regression testing.
And this is all going to save you money.
You're going to let your
customers do the customization
because they're the customers.
They're going to think
of what you've forgotten.
They're going to think of
what you didn't think of.
And they're going to
write scripts to do it.
And if you've got this online
community feeding that back to you,
you're going to find out about it.
And then you're going to be able to
spend your time on the things that
people are really interested in.
You're not going to spend a year creating
a fabulous feature that you're really,
really proud of, but nobody ever uses.
The first step,
and I said we mean the first step,
is designing a dictionary.
You want to empower your end user.
You want to give them the ability
to solve their own problems.
And you start by reading the
scripting interface guidelines.
Tech Note 2106,
one of the great tech notes of our time.
You should definitely read it.
And you want to deliver an
object-oriented solution.
Give your users tools that they
can build their own solutions with.
Don't try to anticipate their needs and
give them a silver bullet that does that
one magic thing that they need done.
Because sure as shooting
that silver bullet,
they'll be back saying,
"I need one more silver bullet.
I'm not done yet." And if you
give them a rich object model,
you also achieve interoperability
with other applications.
And you don't have people
coming to you and saying,
"Gee, it would be really great if your
application had a nice spreadsheet like
Excel embedded in it." You can say,
"Well, we have scriptability,
so we don't need that."
When you're designing things,
there's some pitfalls
that you can fall into,
and if you read Techno 2106,
we'll talk about those.
You'll see those in there.
And mostly it's oriented
around giving a good,
strong object model.
Those of you who are familiar with
AppleScript or have maybe made
an application scriptable before
will look at this first line,
close front window, and you'll say, John,
it's a perfectly good
line of AppleScript.
What's wrong with that?
Why is there a big red X there?
Well, because in our example here,
somebody has put close front window
in their dictionary as a command.
It's three words,
it's close front window,
and it closes the front window.
That's not the way we want you to do it.
What we want you to do is use close,
which is a verb in the standard suite.
You don't have to add that.
That's already there.
Front is a reserved word in
the AppleScript language that's
a synonym for the index one.
And window is an object that's
also defined in the standard suite.
So you don't have to do that either.
You need to support it,
but you don't have to define it.
And so together,
those things become close, the command,
and front window, the object specifier.
And now that's the right way of doing it.
The same line of AppleScript,
but the implementation is
object-oriented instead.
Another thing that you want to avoid,
you want to be friendly
to the language itself.
You don't want to stick verbs inside of
things that are supposed to be nouns,
because then when people
write AppleScript,
AppleScript is has a
nice easy flow to it.
It's easy to read.
But if you throw verbs
into the middle of nouns,
funny things are going to happen.
You're going to have something that says,
"if isFrontWindow is true." And that's
going to make it hard to read,
hard to figure out
what's a language term,
what's an application term.
So what we want you to do
is leave that word "is" out,
and just call this "frontWindow." Again,
it's an object specifier.
If you support windows,
"front" is defined for you.
It all just works.
You also don't want to just
take the internals of your
code and just leave it out.
You want to take the internals
of your application and dump it
on the end user and expect him to
figure out what it was you wrote.
You want to simplify it for him.
You want to candy-coat
it a little bit for him.
And one of the things that will tell
you faster than anything else that
you've just dumped your internal
implementation on the user is if
there's intercaps in your dictionary.
Anybody who sees intercaps
in your dictionary,
they're going to know immediately
you haven't done your homework.
You haven't done it right.
And again, this is an example of a
really egregious violation.
This is a command called "closeWindow"
with intercaps and no spaces in it.
And as its object, it takes an index.
That's not object-oriented.
We don't close integers.
We close windows.
So again, we don't want to pass an index
as the input to an operation.
What we want to do is we want to pass
an object specifier as the input to
the close command and do it that way.
That's object-oriented.
Another thing you don't want to do
is put underbars in your dictionary.
AppleScript will allow you
to have multi-word terms.
You don't have to connect things
together for them to work in AppleScript.
So again, you want to get rid of
these underbars here,
and you just want to change
this to front window,
which is an object specifier
just like any other.
What do I do?
Where do I start?
Where do I finish?
How do I know I'm ready
to ship release one?
Well, what we want you to do is
think big at the beginning.
Go through the process
in an iterative fashion.
Keep designing until you've
designed terminology for
everything your application can do.
Then step back and look at it and say,
my gosh, I can't do that in one release.
What am I going to do with this?
Scale it back for the first release.
And what we tell people is solve one
compelling problem that a real user has.
Talk to your online community.
Find out what people's problems are.
Find out something interesting that
would be good to do with scriptability.
And provide enough scriptability in your
dictionary to solve that one problem.
Send out a sample script
that solves that problem,
and that's release one.
Now you've got scriptability
into your end user's hands.
You've got an interesting problem
that at least one person was really
interested in getting a solution for.
And now there's going to be
a buzz that's going to start.
People are going to start
scripting your application.
They're going to find out that they
can do some really cool things.
They're going to find out that
there's some things they can't get at.
They're going to feed that
information back to you.
And again,
you're going to spend your time where
you know it's going to do a lot of good.
It's okay to have features that are in
the GUI but are not in your scripting.
Some applications have very powerful
dialogues that allow you to create
Boolean descriptions of searches.
That you can take values
of various fields,
do comparative operations,
and and or the various
operations together,
and come up with a subset of data that
the user's interested in looking at.
And that's a great feature.
But you really don't want
to try to duplicate that in
your scripting dictionary.
The reason being,
Apple script has whose clauses,
Objective C has predicates,
every scripting language has some way
of expressing a query of some sort.
You want to leave that in the language.
If you implement the basics
of object model access,
you'll get that query feature as
part of the scripting language.
You won't have to build
it into your application.
It's also okay to have features that
are in the scripting and don't have
to build it into your application.
You can also have features that don't
show up in the application's UI.
Not right away, maybe later, maybe never.
In mail, there's a lot of fields that you
can add to an address book card.
Like job title, anniversary date,
maiden name, things like that.
Those were all available in
scripting first and didn't
show up in the UI until later.
That meant that the address
book team was able to test them.
Power users of address book were able to
get at them and start putting data in.
People that were importing data into
address book could make use of them.
It wasn't until later when they
designed a nice UI for them
that it showed up in the UI.
That's okay.
Your scripting implementation
and your UI implementation
do not need to match exactly.
But they shouldn't stray too far afield.
A long, long time ago,
networks were slower,
computers were smaller.
This is a gigabyte of memory
and it's considered small.
That would be enough for a
thousand computers back when
AppleScript first came into existence.
We had to shrink things
down and as a result,
a lot of the terminology
in Apple Events has shrunk
down to four byte codes.
One of the jobs you have to do as a
developer is to take human terminology
that's going to mean something to your
end users that they're going to use
in their scripts and you're going to
have to map that to a four byte code.
Four byte codes absolutely must
be unique inside your application.
Applications are isolated from each
other by tel blocks in AppleScript and by
similar mechanisms in other languages so
that your terminology and the terminology
of another application don't collide.
But it's good for you to agree
with as much existing terminology
as you can for several reasons.
The AppleScript language itself
defines a lot of terminology,
and you definitely want
to agree with that.
If you have any conflicts,
AppleScript wins and you lose.
Scripting editions,
including the standard editions
that ship with the system,
also define global terminology,
and if you conflict with that,
they win and you lose.
If you want your application to be
used by AppleScript Studio developers,
AppleScript Studio defines
a lot of terminology,
and you don't want to
conflict with that either.
And even if you just want to get
along with some other application,
if you want to be able to send things
like files and pictures back and forth,
you want to agree on terminology
with that application.
So if you go to your favorite
search engine and you search
for Apple event codes,
one of the first couple of hits will
be a big page that we have posted
from Apple servers with a list of
about 2,000 4-byte codes and the human
readable terms that they correspond to.
We strongly encourage you,
when you're reviewing your dictionary and
making sure that everything's just right,
go to that page and
check your 4-byte codes.
If you see something that's
already been defined,
by all means, reuse it,
reuse the same 4-byte code.
You're not stealing, you're being nice.
Where do you get this design from?
You don't get it from a typical
programming specification.
What you want to do is you want
to get it from the end user
perception of your application.
You want to design a terminology
that's going to be familiar to your
end users because it uses the same
words to describe things that they do.
Last year,
I talked about something called
a blind interview and I showed
this real scary picture.
And then I never did tell you
what a blind interview was.
So we're going to correct that.
Today we're actually going to do
a blind interview so you'll get an
idea of how we go about doing this.
Your scripting dictionary is going
to have to reflect your internal
structure to a certain extent.
In fact, the way Cocoa scripting works,
there really do need to be
Cocoa objects for everything
that appears in your dictionary.
But you want to do that within reason.
There's a lot of private
stuff inside your application,
implementation details, helper objects,
things that you really don't want
to hand over to the end user.
Hide all of that stuff.
Simplify all of that stuff.
Use the classic data hiding
capabilities of object-oriented
languages to protect the customer
from having to mess around with
crazy bit flags and things like that.
And I promised you a blind interview
and now we're going to do that.
We're going to bring up
Chris Page for our demo.
And we're going to show you
what a blind interview is.
So, we're going to look at a program that
should be familiar to all of you.
It's Preview.
It comes with Mac OS X,
and you all have it on your machine,
and if you double-click a picture file,
Preview is what comes up
and shows you that picture.
So, Chris, if you could, wait,
the blind part.
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to situate myself somewhere
where I can talk to Chris,
and he can manipulate
the Preview application,
and he can tell me what it is he's doing,
but I can't actually see what he's doing.
If you come to the lab downstairs,
typically I would sit
across the table from you.
You would have your application
on your portable in front of you.
I'd be across the table.
I couldn't see what you were doing.
This forces you to tell me in
words what it is that you're doing,
and then I'm going to
write those words down,
and those words are going to become the
terms in your AppleScript dictionary.
So, Chris, double-click a file.
A file?
A file.
All right.
And tell me what you see.
I see a window.
Honestly,
I can't see anything down here at all.
I see a window with an image
of the Golden Gate Bridge.
Okay.
Do you see anything around
the edges of that window?
Is there anything else
besides just the image?
Yeah, the window has a toolbar
with some buttons in it.
Okay.
And what are some of the
tools in the toolbar?
There's a previous and next button.
There's some zooming buttons.
Moving and selecting.
A slideshow button to play a slideshow.
And there's a button to
show and hide the sidebar.
Okay.
Sidebar, huh?
I wonder what that is.
Are there any other tools?
Are there any other places that
we could look and find some tools?
Well, we've got some menus with commands
like rotation and flipping,
markup, annotation.
Okay.
Okay, good.
Okay, go ahead and close that.
And open another file.
Here's another file.
Okay, now what do you see?
I see another window
with another toolbar.
But this time I see a text document,
and I see a sidebar
with four pages in it.
Okay, so before we had a window with
just a single image in it.
Now we've got pretty
much that same window,
but it's got a document in it,
and that document's got
several different pages.
Is that, it's probably a PDF, right?
It is a PDF.
Okay, okay.
So now, we're starting to develop a
containment hierarchy here.
We've got an application.
This application has windows,
and closely associated with the
window is one or more documents.
In the first case,
it was just a single image.
In this case, it's a single PDF file
with multiple pages.
So we're starting to develop
a list of things that our
application can manipulate,
and we're also starting to develop
a containment hierarchy of how these
things are nested one inside another.
Okay, go ahead and close that,
and see if you can find
a whole bunch of files.
A bunch of files.
Let me see.
Oh, here's some.
Okay.
Go ahead and open all of them.
Now what do you see?
Now I see a window with an
image and a sidebar with the
other images that I opened.
Okay.
And can you change which image
it is that you're looking at?
Yes, I can click on the images in the
sidebar and view them separately.
Okay.
Okay, so now we can see in
our first experiment,
we clicked on a single image,
and it just came up in
a window all by itself.
But now, if we open up multiple images,
they're all available in a sidebar.
So a window can actually have more
than one image associated with it.
So by going through our interview
process in an iterative fashion,
we've learned something more
about the containment hierarchy.
A window can have an image in it.
A window can also have
multiple images in it.
And that's going to be important when
we start designing our scripting,
our scripting dictionary.
Okay.
Thanks very much, Chris.
You're welcome.
Chris Page, he's here all week.
Bring him back up for Q&A later.
And if we can go back to the slides.
Okay.
So,
we did a couple of different things here.
First thing we developed in inventory.
What classes did we find
when we opened this thing up?
We found that there was a window
and it was closely associated
with one or more documents.
Those documents could be
either images or PDFs.
We haven't really finished exploring.
Maybe there's other things
that Preview can open up.
But we know already that there's
at least images and PDFs and
that they inherit from documents.
Your scripting dictionary is
going to be able to represent
both inheritance and containment.
And inheritance and containment
are two different things.
Images and PDFs inherit from documents,
but they're contained inside of Windows.
Okay.
We've also deepened our
containment hierarchy.
PDFs can have pages.
So, we have to add that to our inventory.
And there's this thing
called a slideshow.
And we're thinking we're probably not
going to get to it in release one,
but we better put it on our list because
we're designing the whole universe.
And we want to make sure that
And we want to make sure that we
reserve those terms now so that
we don't come back later and say,
you know, we really should have called
this other thing a slideshow.
Boy, we messed up.
Now we're going to
have to work around it.
We also looked at the toolbar
and the menus and we found some
possibilities for commands.
We want you to deliver an
object-oriented solution.
We want you to think objects first.
But every application has a few
things that it does that are unique
to that application and you want to
make sure that you cover those so
that your end users can use them.
In preview,
some of the things we saw were rotate,
flip, and zoom.
We have this thing called a slideshow we
want to do and we know at the very least
we're going to have to start and stop it.
And then just in general,
almost any application will
have these kinds of things.
We were able to select an individual
page or an individual image
and focus the window on that.
So we're going to want to have
a way of selecting things.
And the whole purpose of
preview is to show us stuff.
So we want to be able to tell preview,
hey, show me this.
and reveal is the word
that we use for that.
I talked earlier about the difference
between inheritance and containment.
Here's the containment hierarchy.
The outermost container is
always the application itself.
When you tell an
application to do something,
it acts as the outermost container
for all these other objects.
The application has a
window inside of it.
The window has one or more documents
that can be either images or PDFs,
and PDFs have one or more pages.
And slideshows, we're figuring,
will probably also have images in them.
And as we develop this some more
and we iterate our interview,
we'll find out more about
what goes inside a slideshow.
What makes one object
different from another?
What makes one object interesting
when another isn't is the
value of its properties.
You're going to want to give your end
users access to these properties to
allow them to get them and set them and
also to sift through their inventory
of objects that they have and pick
the ones that they're interested in.
We noticed while we were manipulating
preview that there was some notion
of a current document in the window.
We want to make sure that the
scripter can get at that so he knows
which picture it is that is being
displayed in the window right now or
which page of the PDF and that the
scripter will be able to change those.
Again, the PDF document is going to have
a notion of a current page that's
the one being shown in the window.
We would want to support that as well.
And another thing you can do with PDFs,
when I was experimenting with it,
you can blow them up and make them
easier to read from the back of the room.
So you're going to want to
be able to control the scale
of the document as well,
and that's measured as
a percentage of 100.
And images,
they're going to have height and width,
and they're going to have a file type.
One of the things that Preview
does that's really powerful
is convert between file types.
You're definitely going to
want to make that scriptable.
That's exactly the kind of tedious,
repetitive task that people hate,
and we'll teach them to
hate your application unless
you make it automatable.
Slideshows are going to have intervals
for how long a slide stays on the screen,
transitions for how one slide goes off
the screen and the next takes its place.
And there's probably going to be settings
for those for the entire slideshow.
There may very well be settings
for interval and transition for
each individual slide as well.
I know that Keynote supports that.
Then,
after you've done this interview and
you've gathered all this information,
all you've got to do is sit
down and write a little XML.
There are two really good
third-party solutions.
Suite Modeler from Don Briggs.
If Don's here, say hi.
It's a good one.
And then there's also SDef Editor.
They're third-party shareware solutions.
By all means, search for them on the web,
download them, see if you like them.
I personally write my XML in BBEdit
and use their formatting features
to make it look really pretty.
I make fire with Flint and Stone.
So you do it the way
that's right for you.
You're going to want to take the
information that you got from that
interview and put it in your dictionary.
These are the terms that we came up
with when we were doing our interview.
We saw that there was an image that
we were going to be able to look at.
Images have height and width,
and images have file type.
Those file types are enumerated.
The way I found out which file
types preview supported is I did a
save as and looked at the pop-up.
That's where I found those.
Then you're going to want to
assign 4-byte codes to those.
I looked these up on
our 4-byte code page,
and I found some and used the
ones that were already there.
The ones that I didn't find,
I made up some,
and then I looked for the ones I made up
and made sure that they weren't there.
You've got to do it both ways.
If you make up something new,
you've got to make sure it's not
being used for something else.
If you find what it is
you're trying to define,
you definitely want to keep
the human readable term and the
4-byte code paired together.
You're the programmers.
you get paid to do that kind of stuff.
Then you're going to have to hook
this back up to your Cocoa objects
inside your application.
So the image object is represented
inside my application by a
Cocoa object I call my image.
We've also got this
nice property file type.
And since AppleScript's a
nice English-like language,
there's a space in there.
Objective-C doesn't like spaces
in the middle of its method name.
So somehow or another,
we're going to have to arbitrate that.
So in our property element here,
we've got a non-empty element and
inside of it we've got a Cocoa element.
And we say that the key for this property
is file type with the space squeezed
out and an intercap put in there.
So this allows us to map really
nice-looking human-readable terms
to the yuck that's inside of our
applications and hide that from the user.
Then,
when you're done with all of this...
You put it in the resources
folder in your application,
you set a key in your P list,
point to it,
and it becomes your scripting dictionary.
And then anybody that wants to can
look at it with the dictionary viewer.
If they drag and drop your
application on the script editor,
the dictionary viewer opens up.
If they're an
AppleScript Studio programmer
and they're inside of Xcode and
they ask about your application,
the dictionary viewer comes up.
And they see this nice
representation of it.
And you can see that inheritance
is being expressed here,
containment is being expressed here,
references back to objects that
are defined in the standard
suite are being expressed here.
The end user can see everything
you've done to make this image object
scriptable inside your application.
This is just a little baby step here.
You're going to want
to add more properties.
You're going to want to add more objects.
You're going to want to fill
this out to define everything
that's inside of your application.
After you're done with that,
then you need to write some
code to make it all work.
And I promised you that there
wasn't going to be a lot.
There's four things that you
basically need to take care of.
You have to have element accessors.
The containment hierarchy is all about
nesting things inside of other things.
You need to be able to traverse
that containment hierarchy
and get at these things.
So that means that the container objects
are going to have to have accessors
to get at the contained objects.
Chances are your application already
has something along these lines.
If you're using an
NS Document-based application,
then the NS Application object
already has ordered windows
and ordered documents defined.
Your window accessor and your document
accessor are already there for you.
You just have to make sure
that you use the right method
names in your dictionary,
hook that up, and it just works.
The objects that you define
have to behave similarly.
You have to have ordered
collections of things,
make them available to the scripter
so that they can manipulate them.
You're going to need to do
some element management,
too.
You want to create and delete things.
Your collection of data is not static,
and you definitely want to give the
scripting user the chance to do that.
One of the first things a tester is
going to do when they get their hands
on your scriptability is write a script
that's going to fill the database up
with a thousand objects real fast so
that they don't have to do that by
hand every time they get a new release.
You're going to have to
have property accessors.
What makes one object
different from the other?
What makes one object more
interesting than another is
the value of its properties.
This is something you might
actually already have.
You might get that for free,
and we'll see that later.
And then lastly, and we do mean lastly,
you want to do your commands.
You want to do everything you possibly
can in an object-oriented fashion.
If you have some property
that's just a Boolean value,
you don't want to create two
different verbs to turn it on and off.
You don't want to have a show
command and a hide command.
What you want to have
is a visible property.
And if you set that
visible property to true,
then you can see the object.
You set it to false, you can't.
Saves you two commands.
You're going to have to create that
Boolean property anyway because you're
going to need to be able to query it
to see if something's visible or not.
Once you've got that and
you make it read-write,
you don't need the show
and hide commands anymore.
So try to do things in an
object-oriented fashion first,
then make commands when it's
really a unique situation.
Element accessors look like this.
And again, I said you might already
have something like this.
The name images comes from the
object name in your dictionary,
and it gets repeated in a naming
pattern throughout these accessors.
If you've got small
collections of things,
if you've got a little graphics program
and put maybe a couple of dozen,
a couple of hundred graphics on the
screen at one particular point in time,
you can just return the
entire collection all at once.
If you have a more
voluminous application,
if the back end of your application
is a database or the back end of your
application is the entire Internet,
it's not reasonable for you to
return the entire collection every
time somebody wants to look at
one element in that collection.
So you've got an alternative here.
You can have two variants of this,
one of which returns
the count of the images,
the other of which returns a
particular image at a particular index.
Cocoa Scripting will figure out
which of these you've supported.
And use them appropriately to make
your application perform better.
And in the interest of performance,
there's a couple more
accessors that are defined.
You may have a back end that allows you
to find things by name really quickly.
You may have a hash table where
you can look things up by name
and find them really quickly.
And if you do, you want to provide that
performance to your scripting users.
And you do that by providing a method
called value in images with name.
And again, images would change.
Images would change.
Images, documents, windows,
whatever objects you support,
that word that's in there
in yellow keeps changing.
And if you've got your
back end as a database,
your database probably supports
some notion of a database key.
And it can get things by, it can search,
it can retrieve things from the
database using that key very
quickly and very efficiently.
You want to pass that
performance capability on to
your scripters by implementing
value in images with unique ID.
defining unique ID property
on the image object,
Use the database key to
represent that unique ID,
and then you'll be able to fetch things
from your database in the quickest
and most efficient manner possible.
You're going to want to
manage your objects as well.
You want to create new ones,
get rid of old ones, move things from one
collection to another,
move an image from one album to another,
from one folder to another.
And you do that with these two routines,
insert object in images at index,
and remove object from images at index.
And again, images changes with
the name of the object.
And if you provide these two,
Cocoa Scripting will use
them at the appropriate point
in time to make new things,
get rid of old things,
and to move things around from
one collection to another.
And every good scriptable object
needs to be able to identify itself.
It needs to return an object specifier.
And an object specifier is
essentially a return address.
It tells the scripter or the script
itself while it's running how to get back
to something that it's touched before,
how to get back to an object
that it was looking for before.
And you want to return the best
object specifier that you can.
If your back end is a database,
and you have a key that uniquely
identifies every record in the database,
you want to use that in
your object specifier.
Because then those object
specifiers are good for as
long as the program is running.
You'll always be able to
get back to the same record.
You'll never miss.
Nothing bad will happen because
you added or deleted objects.
If you don't have something like that,
you may want to use a
name object specifier.
Particularly if you're referencing
things in the file system,
name object specifiers are
usually very good for that.
In AppleScript and
scriptability in general,
it's not necessary that names be unique.
So the name object specifier is not as
good as the unique ID object specifier,
but it can be good
enough for your purposes.
You just want to make sure
that you're consistent.
If someone references something by name,
and there's two copies
with the same name,
you want to make sure
that you're consistent.
name, you want to make sure that you
always return the first one,
whatever first means to you.
Because then if someone finds that
object and then later decides,
okay I want to delete that object,
he won't accidentally delete the other
one that happens to have the same name.
As long as you consistently return
the same object for the same name,
that'll work too.
The third kind of object
specifiers is by index.
This is the weakest kind.
This can change.
If you return an object specifier
that's defined by index and you add
or delete anything to the collection,
it's possible that that
index isn't good anymore.
The things have shifted back
and forth and now the index
actually points somewhere else.
That's problematic.
It can lead to data loss.
You want to try to avoid it.
But there's situations where
it's perfectly appropriate.
For instance, if you're talking about a
character inside of a word,
inside of a paragraph,
it's perfectly appropriate
to do that by index.
It's not practical to create a unique
ID for every character in a document.
It's not practical to create a name
for every character in a document.
You just do it by index.
And your scripters will need to know,
gee when I'm manipulating
text on the character level,
I have to be careful about
indices sliding back and forth.
If I delete something,
I have to throw away all my old
object specifiers and get new ones.
If you've made an application
scriptable before,
then you know one of the most
difficult parts is handling
the making of new objects.
The way that Cocoa Scripting worked
is it would allocate an object of
the class that it was interested in.
It would call init on that
object with no parameters.
Then it would call set on that object
to set the various properties that
were specified in the make new command.
And then it would call the insertion
routine that we saw earlier
to add it to the collection.
This was great for a lot of applications,
but it wasn't so great
for other applications.
First of all, your designated initializer
might not be init.
You might have another initializer
that needs to be called for
your object to work correctly.
An excellent case of this is Core Data.
Core Data really brought
this problem home to us.
Making Core Data applications scriptable
was difficult just for that reason alone.
Core Data has an initializer
that takes several parameters,
and somebody needs to call that.
What we've done is we've added
a new object creation interface.
It's a method that you can define on
a container object that will receive
all of the information needed to create
an object all at once and allow you to
determine the order of the operations.
This works great for core data.
It works great for approaching
existing applications that
have complex initializers.
It works great for a lot of people
that were finding scriptability
very difficult for this reason.
The first thing that happens is
the class of the object that's
being defined in the make new
[Transcript missing]
In the case of the preview dictionary
that we were showing you before,
the class would just be NSWindow
because that's what's defined
in the standard dictionary.
And the key would be orderedWindows
because that's the collection it's
going to be inserted into later.
You also have the option when you
make a new object to pass in some
data using a with data clause.
And what might be appropriate in the case
of preview would be a list of images to
open up when this new window is created.
Those are going to arrive into your
application in the contents value.
In this case, the contents value is
going to be an NSArray,
and that NSArray is probably going to
have NSURLs in it to define these files.
Then you're also going to want
to be able to set properties on
that object when you create it,
and those are going to show up
in your method that you code
in the properties operand here.
And that's going to be an
NSDictionary that's going to have
entries for height and width and values
of 300 and 400 associated with them.
So you've got all the data that you need
to make this new object all at once.
And so you make this
new object all at once,
and then you return it as the
return value of this routine.
And then more or less immediately,
Cocoa Scripting will call you back and
tell you to insert it in the collection.
This solves a lot of problems,
particularly if you're trying to make
a core data application scriptable,
or again, like I said,
if you've got a large existing
application that has complex
initializers for your objects.
And that's a very common case.
Property accessors are important
because it's how you differentiate
one object from another.
Chances are, like I said,
if you're using things
like key value coding,
key value observing, and bindings,
you've already got a lot
of these things defined.
And the old way to do it was to just
have a pair of accessors that would
have the name of the property and
then set the name of the property,
and you'd define both of these.
If we wanted to have a name for an image,
this would be the pair of accessors
that would get us at the name
property and allow us to set it.
Key-value coding also can do some
introspection on your object and
actually find your instance variables
with the correct name and hook them up.
If you're really bindings-centric,
you may be depending upon this already
and you don't have any accessors.
You just let bindings access
the instance variables directly.
Well, scripting can do the same thing.
You don't have to write any extra
code that's just for scripting.
And if you've graduated
to Objective-C 2.0 with
the @Property directive,
again, Cocoa Scripting knows about this.
It finds it for you.
You don't have to write any code.
It all just works.
When you're implementing commands,
when you're done right at the very end,
you can't think of anything else to do,
and you've finally gotten
down to the commands,
you're going to have to make some
decisions about how to implement them.
And there's basically two different ways.
You can do them object
first or command first.
Okay, how do you decide which to do?
Always consider object first first.
This is, we're asking you to do an
object-oriented solution.
So obviously we want you to do the
object first method if you can.
Any command that acts on
objects independently is
suitable for this method.
Rotate's a good example.
No matter how many
pictures I tell to rotate,
each picture just rotates
individually on its own and doesn't
need to know about all the rest
of the pictures that are out there.
Here I'm saying pictures
instead of images.
That's not the case with some commands.
If you have an align command,
if you've got a bunch of
graphics in a document and you
want to align their left edges,
you're going to have to act on all
of those objects at the same time.
Those objects do need to
know about each other.
One of them has to be chosen
as the left edge that everybody
else is going to be lined up to.
You may decide for purposes of your
application to just pick the first one.
application to pick whichever one
is farthest to the left already.
So you want to be able to look at
all of those objects all at once.
To do that,
you want to do command-first dispatching.
And to do that, you define a Cocoa object
that represents the command,
the align command.
You inherit from the NS script command,
and you implement a method called
perform default implementation.
And what's going to happen is when
a scripter issues this command,
an instance of this align command
object is going to be created,
and the perform default implementation
method is going to be called.
And then you get your opportunity to act
on the entire collection all at once.
Cocoa Scripting uses your
application as a set of callbacks.
And once you're familiar with it,
it is very logical,
it's very predictable,
and it's going to make a whole lot
of sense to you what's going on.
But there's a learning curve,
and you're going to have to find out,
how does Cocoa Scripting
use my application?
What callbacks do I get?
The toughest part of debugging
scripting implementations
when you first get started is,
where the heck do I put the breakpoint?
What's going to happen next?
I can't get my program to stop.
Well, one way that you can find out is to
use some kind of logging mechanism.
Just put a little macro,
sprinkle it around in your application.
I put it at the very beginning of
every single routine that I write that
has anything to do with scripting,
and a lot that don't.
I put it absolutely everywhere.
And you can have something really simple.
This is what I started out
with several years ago.
But then Brooke Callahan
from the Automator team,
he put me wise and told me that I could
have a lot of stuff done for me.
I used to have to type
in the method name.
I used to have to type in the file name.
Now I don't anymore,
because I've got a little
bit more complicated macro.
And again,
I put this absolutely everywhere.
And just by changing that zero to a one,
I can turn this on.
Just make sure you don't check
it into the source repository
with the switch turned on,
or everybody else that works on the
project is going to get real mad at you.
I maintain an application
called System Events.
If you're an experienced scripter,
you may be familiar with it.
One of the things that
System Events can do is it can tell
you if the script menu is enabled.
It can tell you if that little
script icon is up in the upper
right-hand end of your menu bar.
And you might want to know that if
you're doing some kind of installation
because you might have scripts
that you want to install in there.
And if you turn on the logging in
System Events and you issue the
Get Script Menu Enabled command,
then you'll get these messages
down here at the bottom.
And my macro automatically
sticks my initials in there.
That way, if I'm working on a big
project with a lot of people,
I can tell which messages are coming
from my macros and which messages aren't.
And my initials are not a
string that's likely to show up
accidentally in some other word.
I also have the name of the file,
so I can go back to the source
file where the problem is,
or at least where I want
to put the breakpoint.
Because that's what I'm trying to learn
here is what is Cocoa Scripting doing?
Where do I put my breakpoints?
How do I follow through?
It'll also give me the line number,
so it's really absurdly simple to know
where I need to put my breakpoint.
It'll give me the name of the
routine that's being called,
and sometimes that's all I need.
Sometimes I don't even need to
go and look at the source file.
I say, oh, I'm getting called there.
Yeah, that's wrong.
And also,
if there's any key inputs to this
routine that are going to tell you
something about what's going to happen,
you can put those in the
logging macro as well,
and you'll be able to see
those in the console log.
You turn this on, recompile your app,
run your test script,
and you'll get a log of everything that
your application did in order to satisfy
the requirements of that test script.
Turn it back off,
the macros compile again,
everything goes away,
and you're ready to ship your code.
Testing is really important, again,
for two reasons.
First, it's one of the great benefits
that you get out of making
your application scriptable.
You can test not just the
scripting part of your application,
but the whole back end,
the whole engine that makes your
application as great as it is.
You can test that and make sure
that you're not breaking anything.
So you want to do repeatable
regression testing.
You want to access every element.
You want to create and
delete every kind of element.
You want to move things back
and forth between collections.
You want to access all the
properties of all the elements.
And you want to exercise all of
your commands that you created.
the commands from the standard
suite that you support as well.
These examples here are in
the form of AppleScript.
That's what I'm most familiar with.
But if you attended the talk yesterday
talking about Apple Event Bridge and
the various language bridges,
you'll know that AppleScript is not
the only language you can use anymore.
You can use Ruby.
You can use Python.
You can use Objective-C.
You can use any language that
has a bridge to Objective-C.
So you can write your tests in
whatever scripting language you like.
You don't have to use AppleScript.
And Ruby and Python have some
testing infrastructure built into
them to drive suites of unit tests.
You might want to make use of that to
even further automate your testing.
But these examples are all in
the form of AppleScript because
that's what I'm most familiar with.
Again,
you want to get at everything in your
application every way that you can.
You want to test all of
your element accessors.
And you want to use all the various
different ways of specifying which
element you want to talk about.
You want to do some of these special
named indices and negative indices.
And if you're not
familiar with AppleScript,
negative indices count backwards
from the end of the collection.
So if you want the last
thing in a collection,
that's index minus one and so forth.
And you definitely want to test whose
clauses or whatever the equivalent is
in the language that you're writing.
You want to create some
kind of complex predicate.
You want to ask for a
collection of objects based on
the values of the properties.
And the reason why you want to
do that is because that's what
your customers are going to do.
This is the power of the language.
Going after things one at a time,
iterating through the entire collection,
pounding on things with a little hammer,
that's not the interesting part.
The interesting part is mining the data,
going fishing,
finding out what's in there,
getting at things by means of a query,
and then acting on those results.
You're going to want to test
your element management.
That's one of the potentially most
difficult parts of your program.
That's where if things go wrong,
you can have data loss.
So you want to make sure
that this works very well.
You want to create new objects.
You want to delete new objects.
And this is great for
stress testing as well.
Creating and deleting objects thousands
at a time is great for stress testing.
You want to get at all your properties
and make sure that that works.
You can get at the properties as a group.
You can get at the properties
individually by name.
You want to create repeatable
regression tests where you
change the values of a property,
but then you change them back
to what they were before.
So if you run this test again tomorrow,
you can expect to get
exactly the same results.
You can even automate the comparison
of results if you're creating
suites of automated tests in
your favorite scripting language.
You want to test edge cases.
Push your program right up to the
limit of what it can do and make
sure that that works correctly.
And you also want to test error cases.
Make sure that the scripter gets back
some kind of reasonable response that's
going to help them debug their script and
figure out what it is they've done wrong.
If you need more specific information
about how to return particular errors,
come and see us in the lab and
we can tell you all about that.
And with your commands,
you're going to want
to do the same thing.
You're going to want to test your
commands with just default parameters.
Just issue the command
and see what happens.
Make sure it doesn't do anything bad.
Make sure that it presumes
some reasonable defaults
and does something useful.
And you want to do it with all
the parameters specified as well.
[Transcript missing]
And last and probably most important,
you want to include some real-world
test cases in your test suites.
We talked about getting feedback
from your online community.
We talked about your end users
becoming very loyal to you because
they've put you in their automated
workflows and now they're dependent
upon you as part of their daily lives.
You want to make sure that you
don't break those workflows.
You want to make sure that you don't
hurt those people that love your
application because of its scriptability.
And you also want to make
sure that your big customers,
if you've got one big customer that
accounts for two-thirds of your revenue,
you definitely want to make
sure you never hurt that guy.
So what you want to do
is communicate with him.
Get his scripts that he actually
uses on a day-to-day basis.
Put them in your test suite.
Make sure that they never break.
Retain the results.
Compare the results
from release to release.
And validate your release
before you send it out.
You don't want your best and most
loyal customers to be disappointed
with your newest release because
you broke their weekly workflow.
If you want more information,
you've got lots of sources.
Sal Sigourian is our Product Manager of
Automation Technologies.
His name gets longer and longer.
And he's the Product Manager for
both AppleScript and Automator
and all the language bridges.
John Montbriand is your
Developer Technical Support contact.
If you get a message to him,
he'll make sure it gets to the right
engineer in the right group and that
you get some kind of answer back.
Lots of documentation online.
Techno 2106,
the scripting interface guidelines,
the table of Apple event terms
and codes so that you can pick
your 4-byte codes correctly.
Lots more documentation.
And the last one up there is just
the site for the show itself.
Each session will have its own page.
You can go to the page for this
session and there'll be some wonderful
links there for you to follow.
Tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
downstairs in Mac Lab A.
We'll be there to help make
your application scriptable.
We can go through a blind interview
and help you design your dictionary.
We can help you write code.
We can help you write tests.
We can just give you general
encouragement to make your application
scriptable and show you how it'll
interact with other people if you do,
with other applications if you do.
And so, to sum it all up,
customers get a chance to
solve their own problems,
which is great for them,
and it's great for you.
You spend less time hunting
for regressions because
they're caught automatically.
You spend more time on beneficial
features that you know lots of
people are already interested in.
The customers spend less time
doing the same thing over and over,
learning to hate your program.
And they spend more money ordering
upgrades and new desks for your program.
Everybody wins.
Thank you.